# BE App

This is a PHP project using the Laravel framework. This document includes instructions for setting up the project, initializing the development environment, and configuring and running the database.

## System Requirements

- PHP >= 7.3
- Composer
- MySQL or another compatible database system
- XAMPP (optional, if you are using XAMPP as your local server)

## Initial Setup

Follow these steps to set up the project:

1. **Clone the Repository**

   First, clone the Git repository to your local machine:

   ```bash
   git clone <repository-url>
   cd <project-directory>
   
2. **Install Dependencies**

    Use composer to install PHP dependencies:
    ```bash
   composer install
   
3. **Environment Configuration**
    
    Copy the `.env.example` file to `.env`, and configure your database and other environment variables according to your local settings:
    ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
    ```
    Then generate the application key:
   ```bash
   php artisan key: generate
   ```
   This step is optional. If autogenerated by Laravel, this step (generate application key) can be skipped.

4. **Enable PHP ZIP Extension**
   When using XAMPP or another PHP installation, you may need to enable the ZIP extension to allow PHP to process ZIP files, often used in Laravel for various dependencies or features, such as file uploads.
   - Open the `php.ini` file.
   - Find the line `;extension=zip.`
   - Change it to `extension=zip` (remove the semicolon) to enable the extension.

5. **Configure Compose Repository**
   To ensure that Composer can properly access the Packagist repository, run the following command to configure the global repository URL for Composer:
    ```bash
   composer config -g repo.packagist composer https://packagist.org
    ```
   This ensures that your Composer can download packages from the official source even in the case of DNS resolution issues or certain network configurations.

## Database Setup
1. Create the Database
   Based on your environment settings, create a new database. For example, using MySQL:
    ```bash
   CREATE DATABASE project CHARACTER SET utf8mb4 COLLATE utf8mb4_unicode_ci;
   ```
   This can skipped if you using xampp or phpmyadmin.

2. RunMigrations
    Use Laravel's migration feature to set up the database tables:
    ```bash
   php artisan migrate

3. Seed the Database
    If needed, run the database seeders to populate initial data.
    ```bash
    php artisan db:seed
    ```

## Running the project

Start your development server:
    
```bash
php artisan serve
```

## Some tips
### General
```
php artisan list
```
Display list of all available Artisan commmands.

```
php artisan help <command>
```
Displays help for a specific command, explaining its purpose and usage, including all options and arguments.

